---
layout: post
title: Week 3 - Quick Note, our firefox extension
---


This week, my teammates ([Haocheng Lu](https://ossd-s25.github.io/LuHC409-weekly/) and [Alvaro Martinez](https://ossd-s25.github.io/AlvaroMartinezM-weekly/)) and I developed [Quick Notes](https://github.com/ossd-s25/Quick-Notes), a efficient note-taking extension for Mozilla Firefox. Click 'READ MORE' to see more details!
<!--more-->
## Progress So Far
So far, we implemented the following functions in Quick Notes:
- open a sidebar and take notes.
- save and load notes locally.
- render support for Markdown and LaTeX; seamless switch between source mode and preview mode.
- scroll down or drag to change the size of the editor.
- `Ctrl-Z` to undo previous changes, which is not naturally supported in the editor.

## Problems \& Solutions
During the process of development, we faced several technical problems:
- [x] the logic for Markdown and LaTeX rendering is very complicated, almost impossible to implement from scratch in less than 2 weeks.
- solved by using existing packages, [Marked](https://github.com/markedjs/marked) and [MathJax](https://github.com/mathjax/MathJax).
- [x] we could not choose the path to save notes. They are saved to `Downloads/` by default. The JS script does not have access to the file system of the local machine.
- we leveraged the `browser.downloads` API as a workaround
- [ ] the editor still fails to render LaTeX code enclosed by '\$'. Some documents indicate this is due to conflict between Markdown parsing and LaTeX parsing. Maybe we need to re-configure the 2 packages to solve it.

## Collaboration \& Contributions
My team mates and I had frequent communication by text message and seamless collaboration with Git. As for me, I mainly contributed to the Markdown \& LaTeX rendering function, switch between modes, custom save \& load path, and most of the documents in this project.

## Surprises
I was not fluent in Javascript and HTML before I joined this class (the only experience I had in these 2 languages was a graduate Computer Graphics course I took last semester). However, I was surprised to notice as long as I understand the structure of the project, it's easy to pick up the relevant HTML and JS grammar and apply it to this project.  
Besides, through this project I realized contributing to an open-source project is such a pleasure. The moment you see your push is completed, all the effort seems worth it.




