---
layout: post
title: Week 15 - Presentation Reflections & Continued Contributions
---

This week, we watched the presentation of the last 3 groups, and my journey of this course is about to come to an end 😭 (but my journey of open-source is not!) Click to see my final thoughts!
<!--more-->

## Presentation Reflections
This Monday, 3 groups presented their final projects. The most impressive one was [gleam](https://github.com/gleam-lang/gleam?tab=readme-ov-file), a functional programming language that compiles to JavaScript and Erlang with very friendly syntax. I really admire the knowledge required to contribute this project (functional programming, compiler, etc.). The specific contributions - installation instructions improvement, benchmarking suites - look impactful and interesting.  
Another project that gave me deep impression was Open Food Facts. I have to confess, though my colleagues' frontend contributions look great, what attracted the most was the strange atomosphere of the community. The story that one member kept calling others "sir" and finally resulted in contention was interesting. However, I do hope my colleagues can find projects with better community culture to contribute in the future.

## My Contributions
- [lm-evaluation-harness PR #2892](https://github.com/EleutherAI/lm-evaluation-harness/pull/2892): Still working on this. I noticed the evaluation results differ from existing reports significantly. Need more time to run experiments on different reasoning models and figure out which part went wrong.
- [foundation-model-stack PR #390](https://github.com/foundation-model-stack/foundation-model-stack/pull/390) I have fixed the DCO issue, and have pinged the maintainers for further review.
- [huggingface transformers PR #37476](https://github.com/huggingface/transformers/pull/37640) I spent a long time thinking about the best practice we can provide for the user no matter they simply want to install the package or build from source (which have very different mechanisms). Finally, I came up with a solution with minimal redundancy and have submitted a new version. The reviewer commented "I've looked over the changes briefly. They look much better!", which is a great relief!
- [huggingface transformers PR #37642](https://github.com/huggingface/transformers/pull/37642) Still no response. I may need to ping the reviewer and the maintainers to accelerate this. 